We have an exercise here.
This one starts to get
a little bit harder.
So if folks are struggling with it,
there's like absolutely no problem with
just waiting until we go over
the whole thing together.
But this is like a really
cool opportunity.
I would just suggest to at least play
around with the Performance tab and
start looking at it.
So the [LAUGH] idea is it's
about layout thrashing.
Well, we've been talking about it's
about page jank, and things like that.
So you can see right now, we've got these
ten little Frontend Masters logos, and
they're just animating around,
on the screen here.
And they're really smooth,
at least for my screen.
They're very smooth.
And as you start adding more,
and more, and more,
I have a very new laptop, but, it gets to
the point where they're very not smooth.
I'm not sure how it's coming in, but like
on my screen, they're like very jittery.
And so,
this is a kind of a multi part task.
I'm going to remove
some sort of back down.
So the first one is to make it jittery,
keep adding 10 or
100 until it gets jittery.
And when it's jittery,
like we'll add a couple like this,
we'll open up the dev tools.
We'll go to performance and we'll
record like just one second, let's say.
So another like tip for
when you're doing the recordings is
there's a lot of information to process.
So the shorter that you can keep
your recordings to the better.
If you try to record like 10 or
15 seconds of stuff, you'll just have way
too much data it'll take too long to
parse, and it'll be too much to look at.
So the exercise here is to get
it to the point where it's
janking to do a performance
recording on it.
And then we'll want to one, look at
all the ways that Dev Tools tells you.
There's page jank, which I'm sort of kind
of giving away here with like these big
red bars and things like that.
So that's one,
see if we can figure that out.
And then the other thing is, can you
figure out from just the main thread view,
what function is causing the page jank?
Just to look at, read through it,
scroll up and down.
One thing I should mention is
navigating is a little bit tricky here.
So let me go back and record again.
So I'll just record for
one second and stop it.
So we're just gonna be
looking in the main thread.
But navigating is really hard to do.
So if you scroll like up and down,
you'll see that it doesn't
actually move you up and down.
It moves you like you're zooming in.
I don't know if you can
see these bars up here.
So as what I would think would
scroll me down actually zooms in and
zooms out over a specific section of time.
And so what you'll wanna do if you wanna
actually scroll up and down, like here or
something like that, you'll wanna
hold Shift while you scroll, and
that'll allow you to actually move up and
down the call stack.
So you can see this whole thing,
this is the whole second of me running.
You can zoom in on a little bit.
We should be able to see what
type of stuff was happening here.
This is on the optimized example still,
but there's only ten of them.
But you can see that the frames per second
are high, they're looking pretty good.
You can see that there's a lot of free
time, that's those slashes through, and
the time that is spent it
looks like it's spent between,
if we go back to this summary,
and drag it up.
Between scripting and rendering
looks like it's pretty evenly spent.
So the idea here will be to
do the exact same thing, but
after you've hit add 100 enough times so
that there's actual jank happening and
take a look at how different it looks.
How you can identify that there's
definitely a problem here and
see if you can kind of figure out just
by peeking around in this main thread,
what tasks are happening when
the page jank is starting to happen?